Here lies the personal website and portfolio for my sister, Christina.

It will primarily be an image gallery, with potential social links or
aggregation, and maybe a small micro-blog for thoughts.

The image gallery is pretty standard, avoiding flash and done entirely in
javascript. Images will mainly be photographs, but art pieces (scanned or
photographed themselves) can also be there.

The gallery will be of an abstracted-out "project" concept, where each project
can be art, a photograph, a song, etc.  Each project will have a thumbnail
auto-generated based on content.  A larger preview image of the item will be
available in a lightbox, but will contain a watermark overlaying it. The user
should only have to upload the original image, and the watermarked preview and
thumbnail should be auto-generated.

Projects should have a lot of meta-data associated with it.  The user should be
able to add lots of photography-specific items such as presence of color, type
of photograph, model of camera used, etc.  Whether these fields can be added on
the fly by the user or not is questionable. If so, they should be able to group
fields with default values into templates, and apply them to projects one-by-one
or in bulk. In addition, there should be a "featured" flag on each project,
which will signify that it should appear on the front page.

Categories versus tags for taxonomy of projects?

Projects should have e-commerce integration with all major providers.  This will
allow visitors to actually purchase full-quality and original pieces, There
should also probably be a Donate link located throughout the site, but call it
something like "Support this Artist." Projects should have user-editable
quantity-in-stock, or time-to-make estimates if none are currently available.
The user should receive e-mail notification upon a purchase or order request, as
well as be able to easily review order histories along with Excel export
functionality.

Creating projects and attaching media should be dead simple.  The user should be
able to either make empty projects as they see fit, or drag-and-drop lots of
media at once into the system and deal with the project details later on
a case-by-case basis.

The gallery itself should be a very interactive grid layout.  Thumbnails should
expand slightly on hover, activate lightboxes on click, and provide quick links
for the associated project's page.  There should be drill-down filters along the
side of the page that will allow visitors to quickly browse through massive
amounts of projects to find just what they're looking for. Lightboxes are
standard, with title/description and next/previous buttons.  Possibly use
the grid-flow jquery plugin to animate the grid filtering transitions.

The front page should be a condensed gallery view, without the filters,
surrounding a center floated site logo. If too few projects are flagged as
featured, then fill the rest of the grid spaces with the most recent projects.

Micro-blogging and can be handled later. Will mostly be useful for informing
about upcomming events like showcasings.

Social integration is relatively boilerplate.
Provide links to user's facebook/twitter/flickr/youtube/etc.
Add Like/Tweet quick action buttons to the site in general, and individual
projects.

Would also like to have a sort of blogroll/favorite sites page to provide
linkbacks.

Mosaic instead of grid of images?
Navigation down the left-hand side of the page, sideways text?
Standard breadcrumbs

name? -> Znymka

Homepage
Gallery (drill-down by filters/categories/tags)
Blog
Bio / About Me
Contact
Project
Blogroll/Favorites/Links

Admin
CMS
Review Orders

jquery-masonry
PhotoMosaic

Photostream?
Significant whitespace, spartan design?
No lightboxes, better alternative?
Breadcrumbs vs simple navigation?

Slider example: http://nivo.dev7studios.com/
Toggle between mosaic / stream prominent on the site

Save context of where you came from when going to a details page for a photo,
that way you can have contextual prev/next links (but make what you're browsing
through prominent)
